{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2708
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 SFProText-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 SFProText-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone Artificial Intelligence Study comment. Submitter: Michael Simses. Many thanks for considering my responses below to Questions 1 and 3. My comments specifically address risks Generative AI poses to human creators of works of art. I'm responding in a personal capacity, not as a representative of any organization or entity. Hyperlinks to works cited are included in my answer to Question 3 below.\
\
Question 1: 'As described above, generative AI systems have the ability to produce material that would be copyrightable if it were created by a human author. What are your views on the potential benefits and risks of this technology? How is the use of this technology currently affecting or likely to affect creators, copyright owners, technology developers, researchers, and the public?'\
\
I'm a writer, filmmaker, visual artist, and musician concerned about the risk of harm Generative AI presents to all of these endeavors as remunerative work, and more broadly as human pursuits, because of the apparent ease a of prompting an AI system rather than creating, commissioning or purchasing an artwork without the use of such a system.\
\
Risks arise as well from the nature of the prompt itself, from the way in which users interact with Generative AI systems. Users ask these systems to envision things 
\f1\i for
\f0\i0  them. The process alienates people from their own imaginations. I worry about the risk of erosion of human creative abilities through the systems' widespread use, like the risks associated with automation dependency in other domains such as aviation. [1]\
\
I'm concerned about the Notice of Inquiry's contemplation of special exemptions and exceptions for Generative AI systems, for example: that the unauthorized incorporation of copyrighted works into these systems would constitute fair use (Question 8), or that owners of copyrighted material included in training datasets might not have to be notified of the material's inclusion (Question 16), or that negotiation with each individual copyright holder on matters such as permission and compensation might not be necessary (Section IV, 'The Current Inquiry'), or that records of copyright holders' works' inclusion would not be kept or disclosed (Question 15). I would never want my work to be included among such training materials for Generative AI systems, voluntarily or especially in any undisclosed way. Widespread online scraping of human work to train Generative AI systems [2] has had a deterrent effect on my own production and promulgation of work.\
\
I'm also concerned about the Notice of Inquiry's contemplation of making the output of Generative AI systems copyrightable (Questions 18-21), and can imagine the risk of a kind of copyright opportunism arising from Generative AI: creating works in vast profusion, copyrighting them, then challenging human artists whose later works happen to coincide with that profusion\'97like the practice of Internet domain name speculation. I've performed reverse image web searches on the output of Generative AI image-creation systems, and the resemblances between the AI output and prior human artworks have deterred me from using Generative AI, even for inspiration, and have deepened my concerns about the idea of ever making Generative AI output copyrightable. Even employing Generative AI exclusively on inputs owned by the user poses new and profound risks to the human artist, and to progress in art: for example, the possibility of a studio or network generating an additional season of a TV series by training an AI system on previous seasons, without the involvement of any human artists, who granted their work before such technologies were in use, or even contemplated. The output of Generative AI systems should not be entitled to copyright protection.\
\
The benefits of Generative AI are uncertain and often overstated, the harms are real and happening now, [3] and the risk of damage to human creativity is enormous.\
\
Question 3: 'Please identify any papers or studies that you believe are relevant to this Notice. These may address, for example, the economic effects of generative AI on the creative industries or how different licensing regimes do or could operate to remunerate copyright owners and/or creators for the use of their works in training AI models. The Office requests that commenters provide a hyperlink to the identified papers.'\
\
[1] 'New FAA pilot-training guidelines seek to address manual flying deficiency.' \
By Jon Hemmerdinger. 
\f1\i FlightGlobal
\f0\i0  11/22/23\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.flightglobal.com/safety/new-faa-pilot-training-guidelines-seek-to-address-manual-flying-deficiency/151076.article"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://www.flightglobal.com/safety/new-faa-pilot-training-guidelines-seek-to-address-manual-flying-deficiency/151076.article}}\
\
[2] 'Your Instagrams are training AI. There\'92s little you can do about it.' By Geoffrey A. Fowler. 
\f1\i Washington Post
\f0\i0  9/27/23\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2023/09/08/gmail-instagram-facebook-trains-ai/#"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2023/09/08/gmail-instagram-facebook-trains-ai/#}}\
\
[3] '\'93AI\'94 Hurts Consumers and Workers \'97 and Isn\'92t Intelligent'\
By Alex Hanna and Emily Bender. 
\f1\i Tech Policy Press
\f0\i0  8/4/23\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://techpolicy.press/ai-hurts-consumers-and-workers-and-isnt-intelligent/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://techpolicy.press/ai-hurts-consumers-and-workers-and-isnt-intelligent/}}\
}