{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Microsoft YaHei;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033 Default;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\hich\af3\dbch\af4\afs28\loch\f2\fs28 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sb0\sa120 Text body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sb0\sa120\dbch\af5 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af5\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af5 Index;}
}{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment OpenOffice}{\vern4110}}\deftab709

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\formshade\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Reilly Brown\line Reilly Brown Studios}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
www.reillybrownart.com\line Comment submitted by Reilly Brown to the Copyright Office's study on AI}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hi, my name is Reilly Brown, I'm a professional comic book artist, and I've got to say, watching the effects that generative AI is having on the art community has me totally stressed out!}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Thank you for taking the issue seriously, and for being open to input form the public.  Copyright has been there to protect us artists in the past, and now that the landscape is changing, hopefully it will continue to be there to protect us into the future!}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Question 1: how AI models should use copyrighted data in training}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch
         }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
I think AI models should require the written permission of the copyright holder before they add any image to their training data.  They should also provide a complete and searchable database of all the images used in their training model, so that artists can know where and when their artwork has been used, and by whom.  The programs should also provide information on what AI-generated images the original art was used to create, so that artists can see what their work has been used for.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
I've read reports that Adobe is working on a system that provides information like this, so if it's possible, I see no reason why other AI companies can't implement something similar.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Question 2:  whether AI-generated material can be copyrighted even without a human involved}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch
          }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
I don't see how or why.  AI artwork isn't created by any actual people, so if there's no labor involved in creating the images, what's the point of protecting them?  }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Trademark, sure, but not copyright.  }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Part of the reason artwork needs to be protected by copyright is that, with the labor involved, the amount of images created by any one person over the course of their life is relatively finite.  This is not the case with generative AI.  In fact, while trying to get an image that meets their needs, and AI user will generate multiple iterations in round after round of image generating before they get what they're looking for-- all in the course of a few minutes.  This conceivably makes it possible for someone to "IP squat" and just generate tons of images, in any number of different art styles, in an attempt to corner the market on a certain subject matter.   }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
If this is the direction things take, then copyright no longer becomes about protecting the labor of artists, because with AI there is very little or no labor involved.  It becomes about protecting people who are fastest at generating images, and the cynical interests of people who want to stifle the creativity and job opportunities of human artists.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Question 3: how copyright liability would work with AI}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch
          }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
When it comes to who should be liable for AI that infringes on peoples copyrights, from my understanding there are three important parties that should be held responsible--}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
First, the person who put an artist's copyrighted image into a database that doesn't have permission to have that image.  }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Second, the company that owns the program that uses that image without permission as a basis to generate new images.  If the company doesn't share information on where they get the images, then I think they adsorb the liability of that first person as well.  }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Third, the person who publishes or otherwise distributes those generated images, who will in some way great or small, profit from the image that's based on the work of the original artist.  }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
This third person, of course, should also be held liable for the usual copyright issues-- such as if the image too closely resembles other copyrighted work, etc.  }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Also, not for nothing, but I think requiring permission from the artist before their work can even be placed into an AI database would make the work of the Copyright Claims Board much more cut and dried!}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Question 4:  AI violating publicity rights}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch
          }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Can style be copyrighted?  Generally it's been though that, no, it can't, however I think that's something that should be reconsidered.  If you look at both the way people use generative AI and what the AI is capable of doing, it's hard to ignore that style is something that probably should be protected.  }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Generative AI is showing that a given artist's style is recognizable, duplicatable, and in demand by an audience.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Artists spend years developing their style, and it is difficult for other human artists to willingly mimic them, and even if someone is able to credibly fool an audience once or twice, they rarely can do it reliably-- for instance, in the comics industry, many, many artists have tried to mimic the styles of popular creators like Jim Lee, but still Jim Lee's work is immediately recognizable as his own, and each of his imitators work is recognizable as THEIR own.  Perhaps a newby wouldn't be able to spot the differences between Jim Lee's X-MEN and Art Thibert's, but to any comic book fan the recognition is immediate.  }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
However, AI CAN believably and reliably mimic artists to an extent that we've never seen before-- and we've seen that users of AI are actively seeking to do just that by using artists names in prompts again and again.  This shows that artists styles are, in fact, recognizably unique and in demand, and I think that makes them things that the artists should be able to protect.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
If an AI program was trained on the full catalog of the work of Mike Mignola, and could reliably generate images that looked just like they were created by him, and it was marketed and sold as being able to give it's customers the ability to do just that, what's to stop them?  Shouldn't Mike Mignola be the only person who can control that?  Shouldn't it be HIS right to sell a program that uses HIS work to create images that are designed specifically to be in HIS style?  }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Isn't that exactly the type of unfair exploitation that copyright was designed to protect artists from?   }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
We've never had to consider these questions before, because people didn't have the ability to rip artists off in this way before.  But with generative AI expanding what's possible, they can, and they are, and they're going to keep doing it, and so we have to consider how does copyright expand to fit this new reality.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Since AI expands what is possible for people to do, copyright needs to equally expand what it protects.  }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par }